# Ethan-Harper-snhu.github.io
My experience in the Computer Science program has shown me how truly large the breadth of the Computer Science field truly is. Initially the program begins with basic introduction to computers through hardware, operating systems and machine learning of which there were later courses that devolved into working with different Operating Systems like Windows and Linux. One of the main focuses of the program and where I have the most experience is coding. At SNHU I had the opportunity to work with many languages like Java, JavaScript, HTML, Python and C++ with the main focuses on C++ and Python. Both I have a solid basis of understanding for the future, and I even chose the enhancement of the previous Python project for my Capstone. Another focus of the program, which is always a relevant and changing field, is the aspects of databases and their security, which I thoroughly enjoyed. I have worked in MongoDB local host databases for security and database development practices. This included writing CSVs into databases, creating user credentials and practicing with encryption mainly hashing of which I mainly used SHA-256 hashing. I also had the opportunity to learn about Aritficial Intelligence and the idea behind the new machine learning and learning about and even working with neural networks. Part of my concentration was Information Technology in which I worked on creating test classes, scenarios and actors for existing programs and acting as a help desk solving issues and creating problem solving plans for when bugs may arise in previously existing programs. 

	On a less technical front, one of the classes I took the most was one where I worked in a SCRUM model and agile development. Here I learnt the effectiveness of sprints and the importance of having many roles divided up amongst a team with regular meetings to allow for a fast, and efficient development of software. Some other benefits include the ability to test while developing, designing and reworking on pieces of code that fail tests all at the same time in a team setting. This gave me an idea on what to expect when working with a team on new software or new features to existing software. This also gave me experience with writing documents for a less technical audience like a company owner or shareholder who do not have the coding knowledge to understand the lingo and so I must write in a way to effectively explain the teams’ ideas to such individuals. Through internships and later work I have some experience also in implementing these team skills, shareholder presentations, coding, database architecture and security in a real-world setting.
 
	In my work I use C# as a language and as such I chose this as well as MongoDB, as the basis of my enhancements to my previous Main.py and AnimalShelter.py files to show off both skills from my courses and from my work experience. I wanted to capture my ability to create a new database and tables or collections with a login functionality as basic security as a database skill demonstration. The ability to translate previously existing code into new functions or a new language can be quite important in the real world as companies upgrade old software or base new software on software in a more dated language as such, I thought a language change could show this skill. Lastly, I wanted to translate a program that had hard set variables into one that took user input as most programs require user interaction and I wanted to make this in depth as possible to create an intuitive and complete User Experience which is one of the most important aspects of a program. I believe that this large enhancement of one program in all of these areas would best show off my talents. 

Below is the link to the Original Files for my enhancment
https://github.com/Ethan-Harper-snhu/AnimalShelter

Below are the Links to my Code Review Videos

part two https://youtu.be/KRP9ZNwD2k0

Below is the link to the Enhancment DOcument, the Enhanced Solution in C# and Narrative Files as Word Documents
(https://github.com/Ethan-Harper-snhu/Ethan-Harper-snhu.github.io)

